PostsWelcome to the Off-Topic section of the message board! Here we can get a little more informal and discuss subjects that won’t pertain directly to anxiety. We are all individuals outside of our condition, of course! Are you an avid crafter? Horror movie buff? What was the last book you read that really moved you?
Please be careful about sharing personal details – whilst this is a members’ only forum, it is not wise to give out your phone number or address. Do share your social media handles and any projects you’re working on though!
This topic was modified 10 months, 2 weeks ago by  Dave Smithson.Hi, my name’s Angela, my anxiety and panic attacks have resurfaced after ten years, possibly due to a planned move in few weeks time and delayed grief of parents. Just wondered if anyone has any tips or suggestions, or if going through similar.Hi I’m Eve. I was hoping to find someone who had/ has experience of anxiety caused by solvent/drug abuse.Hi, I’m Becca. I’m new to this forum, not quite sure if anyone looks at these posts and replies. But would be nice to speak to someoneHi Eve and Angela, did anyone respond back to you?Hi beccajacob. No replies. I joined up to read others stories and see how others get on. So,welcome Becca.Thanks Eve, I suppose I’ve done the same. Having a bit of a rough patch at the moment and I’m hoping that I will find inspriation on here 😀Thankfully there are lots of help and advice online.Hi I am Alison. I joined a month or so ago and have been browsing the topics. Going through a rough patch as well but I have decided against prescribed SSRI’s and am focussing on natural alternatives.Hi alison, sorry to hear you’re going through a rough patch. I am too. I am taking SSRIs but feel that I’m still struggling. What other alternatives are you focusing on? Would love your inputHi Alison have you tried Lavender Kalms? They are ok if the anxiety isn’t too high. I use mindfulness a lot too. Good luck finding what works for you.Hi Becca and Eve. No I haven’t tried lavender kalms yet. I am taking 5-htp, vit b complex, vit d3, calcium with magnesium and zinc, and omega 3 tablets. I am also menopausal and cannot tolerate dairy products well, hence the calcium. I have started using headspace for meditation, also have a natural rainfall app which really helps. I also listen to podcasts from ‘the anxiety guy’. All ok so far, things certainly haven’t got any worse! I have also started journalling which helps.Hi Alison, there is meant to be links to vitamin deficiency and anxiety/depression. I’m often Vitamin D and iron deficient so do take supplements when I feel I need them.Hi I’m Jackie and have anxiety through losing my husband. Did OK at first but there was so much to do and organise. I have two daughters and moved us across country two years ago, now I don’t know where that person who did that has gone. No confidence and only drive where I know the area. I wake every morning feeling sick and panicky. I just want to feel me again and felt joining would help to find tools to aid me in this. I want to be there for my daughters but I am more of a burden at the moment. I am taking Kalms, the plain ones and find they help.Hi everyone! I’m Loren and I struggle with health anxiety and generalized anxiety. Self-diagnosed but had a hard time with it since my teenage years. It’s particularly bad at the moment so looking for some support 🙂Posts