PostsWhen did your social anxiety begin? How much would you say it affects your day to day life, and how do you keep it under control?I started to notice that I was affected by social anxiety in my mid teens, although I didn’t know at the time that my anxiety had a name and that it was a recognized anxiety disorder.
It pretty much affects me most days. Some days I cope very well and my anxiety is manageable. However, an invite to a social event is all it takes to set off my anxiety.
I try to be aware of negative thoughts and the impact they have on my mood and behaviour. I also try not to ruminate or post mortem an event. I like to keep busy and I think exercise, which usually involves a brisk walk for me can work wonders. Having someone to talk to so that I can get another person’s perspective and not bottle things up is also a big help for me and something I really appreciate.I don’t have social anxiety myself, but have done in the past, and I found what really helped was exercise. Firstly I used to do this inside my own house since I couldn’t go out much. Then I began walking around the block. This helped me feel a bit fitter, and got me a way from mind-numbing hours spent in front of the television. I also found talking to a counsellor helped me, after I’d felt brave enough to make an appointment that was!Yes, i agree exercise is so important in general to our mental health. Like you say, it is important to initially set yourself small steps when it comes to exercise so it is achievable. Just getting out into the fresh air and light can be really helpful. This is where pets that need a walk can be helpful. Are there any other helpful strategies you use to motivate yourselves to get outside when you are feeling particularly anxious?I began to suffer anxiety as a child. I am not normally constantly anxious but the anxious episodes are unpleasant. I actually started a walking challenge this year to force myself out of the house and get fitter. I have to walk 1000 miles in a year at my own pace and motivation (there is an official challenge online). Living in rural area and having a dog is a definite help, also my family also enjoy being out in nature so it is also something we can do together. I am starting to enjoy exploring new places and taking photographs, I would say that it does help with the feeling that you can expand your world and lessen the affects of the anxiety.Posts